add information about Parquet (#2422)
huggingface/datasets-server: docs/source/parquet.mdx

# List Parquet files

Datasets can be published in any format (CSV, JSONL, directories of images, etc.) to the Hub, and they are easily accessed with the 🤗 [Datasets](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/) library. For a more performant experience (especially when it comes to large datasets), Datasets Server automatically converts every dataset to the [Parquet](https://parquet.apache.org/) format.

## What is Parquet?

> Parquet is a columnar storage format that is optimized for querying and processing large datasets. Parquet is a popular choice for big data processing and analytics, and it is widely used in the industry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parquet is a columnar storage format optimized for querying and processing large datasets. Parquet is a popular choice for big data processing and analytics and is widely used for data processing and machine learning.
```

> In Parquet, data is divided in chunks called "row groups", and within each row group, it is stored in columns rather than rows. Each row group column is compressed separately using the most adapted compression algorithm, and contains metadata about the data it contains.

Reviewer 2: What does "most adapted" mean here? Like the best compression algorithm depending on the data or the most popular?

```suggestion
In Parquet, data is divided into chunks called "row groups", and within each row group, it is stored in columns rather than rows. Each row group column is compressed separately using the most adapted compression algorithm, and contains metadata about the data it contains.
```

Author: 'most adapted' -> reformulated in https://github.com/huggingface/datasets-server/pull/2422/commits/66caeb079a6c68392726a4e3cf555e2f9d0fd574

> This structure allows for efficient reading and querying of the data:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This structure allows for efficient data reading and querying:
```

> - only the necessary columns are read from disk (projection pushdown), no need to read the entire file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- only the necessary columns are read from disk (projection pushdown); no need to read the entire file. This reduces the memory requirement for working with Parquet data. 
```

> - thanks to the statistics of each row group (min, max, number of NULL values), entire row groups can be skipped if they do not contain the data of interest (automatic filtering)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- statistics can be calculated from each row group (min, max, number of NULL values), so entire row groups can be skipped if they do not contain the data of interest (automatic filtering).
```

Author: reformulated in https://github.com/huggingface/datasets-server/pull/2422/commits/66caeb079a6c68392726a4e3cf555e2f9d0fd574

> - the data is compressed, which reduces the amount of data that needs to be stored and transfered

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- the data is compressed, which reduces the amount of data that needs to be stored and transferred.
```

> Note that a Parquet file contains a single table. If a dataset has multiple tables (e.g. multiple splits or configurations), each table is stored in a separate Parquet file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Parquet file contains a single table. If a dataset has multiple tables (e.g. multiple splits or configurations), each table is stored in a separate Parquet file.
```

## Conversion to Parquet

> The Parquet files are published to the Hub on a specific `refs/convert/parquet` branch (like this `amazon_polarity` [branch](https://huggingface.co/datasets/amazon_polarity/tree/refs%2Fconvert%2Fparquet) for example) that lives in parallel to the `main` branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Parquet files are published to the Hub on a specific `refs/convert/parquet` branch (like this `amazon_polarity` [branch](https://huggingface.co/datasets/amazon_polarity/tree/refs%2Fconvert%2Fparquet) for example) that parallels the `main` branch.
```
